=head1 NAME 

Mason - High-performance, dynamic web site authoring system 

=head1 SYNOPSIS 

    # Directives for your Apache config files.
    # Route all requests to the Mason handler.
    #
    PerlRequire /opt/mason/eg/handler.pl
    <Location />
        SetHandler perl-script
        PerlHandler HTML::Mason
    </Location>

    # Sample handler.pl file.
    # Start Mason and define the mod_perl handler routine.
    #
    package HTML::Mason;
    use HTML::Mason;    # brings in subpackages: Parser, Interp, etc.
    use strict;

    my $parser = new HTML::Mason::Parser;
    my $interp = new HTML::Mason::Interp (parser=>$parser,
                                   comp_root=>'/opt/www/htdocs',
                                   data_dir=>'/opt/mason/data');
    my $ah = new HTML::Mason::ApacheHandler (interp=>$interp);
    chown ( 60001, 60001, $interp->files_written );  # chown nobody

    sub handler
    {
        my ($r) = @_;
        $ah->handle_request($r);
    }

=head1 DESCRIPTION 

Mason is a tool for building, serving and managing large web
sites. Its features make it an ideal backend for high load sites
serving dynamic content, such as online newspapers or database driven
e-commerce sites.

Mason's various pieces revolve around the notion of "components''. A
component is a mix of HTML, Perl, and special Mason commands, one
component per file. So-called "top-level" components represent entire
web-pages, while smaller components typically return HTML snippets for
embedding in top-level components. This object-like architecture
greatly simplifies site maintenance: change a shared component, and
you instantly changed all dependant pages that refer to it across a
site (or across many virtual sites).

Mason's component syntax lets designers separate a web page into
programmatic and design elements. This means the esoteric Perl bits
can be hidden near the bottom of a component, preloading simple
variables for use above in the HTML. In our own experience, this frees
content managers (i.e., non-programmers) to work on the layout without
getting mired in programming details. Techies, however, still enjoy
the full power of Perl.

One of the best ways to learn about Mason is to explore the samples/
directory created during installation. There you will find a
collection of components, simple to complex, illustrating most of
Mason's component syntax.

Other Mason features include: 

=over

=item Caching

Mason caches components after compilation, and offers an internal,
shared, expireable data cache for use by components themselves.

=item Standalone Option

Mason is optimized for use with mod_perl, but can also be used as a
standalone tool to generate other types of dynamic text files (similar
to ePerl).

=item Debugging

Mason includes a debugging mode whereby HTTP requests can be captured
to "debug files" for later replay inside Perl's command-line debugger
(as opposed to the non-interactive mod_perl interpreter).

=item Previewer

Mason includes a powerful previewing utility which acts as a proxy
between Mason and incoming requests. Using a web interface, users
create "port profiles" that massage requests in all kinds of
interesting ways: different browsers may be simulated, different
request ports, different times of day, etc.

=back

Mason works by intercepting innocent-looking requests (say,
http://www.yoursite.com/index.html) and mapping them to requests for
Mason components.  Mason then compiles the component, runs it, and
feeds the output back to the client.

Consider this simple Mason component:

    % my $noun = 'World';
    Hello <% $noun %>!
    How are ya?

The output of this component is: 

    Hello World!
    How are ya?

In this component you see a mix of standard HTML and Mason
elements. The bare '%' prefixing the first line tells Mason that this
is a line of Perl code. One line below, the embedded S<E<lt>%
... %E<gt>> tag gets replaced with the return value of its contents,
evaluated as a Perl expression.

Beyond this trivial example, components can also embed serious chunks
of Perl code (say, to pull records from a database). They can also
call other components, cache results for later reuse, and perform all
the tricks you expect from a regular Perl program. See
B<HTML::Mason::Components> for a full tutorial on building, using and
debugging Mason components.

=head1 INSTALLATION 

Mason has been tested under Linux and Solaris, but not yet (by us)
under Win32. As an all-Perl solution, though, it should work on any
machine that has working versions of Perl 5.004+, mod_perl, and the
required CPAN modules.

Mason has a standard MakeMaker-driven installation. See the README
file for details.

=head1 CONFIGURING MASON 

Mason's configuration depends on two files: your Apache C<conf> files
(C<httpd.conf> or C<srm.conf>), into which you insert directives to
activate Mason's request handler, and Mason's C<handler.pl> file which
runs at Apache startup. C<handler.pl> does two things: it starts up
Mason (which then runs persistently within the httpd), and it defines
a handler routine to receive HTTP requests.

The paragraphs below assume some knowledge of mod_perl, Apache
configuration details, and the Apache request API. If you're rusty on
any these topics, bone up by reading the documentation available at
http://www.apache.org (Apache) and http://perl.apache.org
(mod_perl). Here you will also find subscription details for the
mod_perl mailing list--in my view the best mod_perl resource around.

=head2 Single Site Configuration 

The simplest Mason component is one composed of pure HTML, so the fast
track is simply to attach Mason to some branch of your server's
DocumentRoot, like so:

    # Additions to your httpd.conf
    PerlRequire /usr/local/mason/handler.pl

    Alias /mason /usr/local/www/htdocs
    <Location /mason>
        SetHandler perl-script
        PerlHandler HTML::Mason
    </Location>

These directives tell Apache to first run C<handler.pl>, the Mason
startup file. The "Alias" then maps any "/mason" URLs into the
DocumentRoot (assuming the DocumentRoot is /usr/local/www/htdocs).
Finally, the <Location> directive routes those requests to the handler
routine C<HTML::Mason::handler>.

If you want to create HTML without necessarily using the .html extension,
you might optionally change your DefaultType:

    DefaultType text/html

That's it for the Apache configuration. Next you will need to
configure Mason's C<handler.pl> file, a sample of which is in
C<eg/handler.pl>. Here you must make some decisions about where
certain files should live:

=over

=item Where is the component root (comp_root)?

Mason introduces the idea of a "component root" which, like the
DocumentRoot, is a virtual root for the component filesystem. In this
example we equate the two roots; other configurations will opt to keep
them separate.

=item Where is the data directory (data_dir)?

Mason generates various data files, which live in topical directories
under Mason's "data directory".

=item What is the UID and GID that the server runs under?

If your web server is running on a privileged port like 80, the parent
process runs as root and spawns children under the 'User' and 'Group'
IDs listed in your C<httpd.conf>. To prevent ownership and permission
conflicts, set the chown() parameters to match the UID and GID from
your C<httpd.conf>. See the C<handler> section in the
I<Administrator's Guide> guide for details.

=back

Both comp_root and the data_dir are set when Mason creates a new
Interp object:

    my $interp = new HTML::Mason::Interp (parser=>$parser,
                    comp_root=>'/usr/local/www/htdocs'
                    data_dir=>'/usr/local/mason/');

Set these to your own locations, then restart the server and go to
some standard URL on your site, prefixing the URL with "/mason". If
all goes well you should see the same page as without the "/mason"
prefix. If not, recheck your Apache config files and C<handler.pl>,
and also tail your server's error log.

Assuming it worked, you now have a Mason "lens" through which to view
your HTML tree. Try adding a Mason tag to some HTML file, say <% 2+2
%>. If you hit Reload and see a "4", Mason's up and running. You can
now copy or link the C<samples/> directory into your new comp_root and
check out the sample components in your browser.

Once you feel comfortable with Mason, you can "fully" install it by
deleting the "Alias" directive from your httpd.conf, and changing the
<Location> mapping from "/mason" to just "/". Now all URLs serve
through Mason.

B<HTML::Mason::Admin> describes how to configure Mason to work with
multiple virtual servers on the same box.

=head1 DOCUMENTATION ROADMAP 

Once Mason is on its feet, the next step is to write a component or
two. The I<Mason Developer's Manual> (B<L<HTML::Mason::Components>>) 
is a complete tutorial for writing, using, and debugging components. A
companion to the Developer's Manual is the Mason commands reference,
B<L<HTML::Mason::Commands>>.

System Admins, or others interested in configuring Mason or tuning for
performance, should read B<L<HTML::Mason::Admin>>. Details of Mason's
core modules can be found in B<L<HTML::Mason::Parser>>,
B<L<HTML::Mason::Interp>>, and B<L<HTML::Mason::ApacheHandler>>.

=head1 AUTHOR 

Jonathan Swartz, swartz@transbay.net 

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<HTML::Mason::Components>,
L<HTML::Mason::Commands>,
L<HTML::Mason::Parser>,
L<HTML::Mason::Interp>,
L<HTML::Mason::ApacheHandler>

=cut
